# Research notes: cont.

 	⸜(⸝⸝⸝´꒳`⸝⸝⸝)⸝


My friend, named Haz, said this about my thesis:
> reminds me of a quote from one of my fav songs that’s 

> “for a man that trades his liberty for a safe and dreamless sleep doesn’t deserve the both of them and neither shall he keep"

> line before is 

>“so if ever a man should ask you for your business or your name tell him to go and fuck himself, tell his friends to do the same”

A good reference, I admit. I liked the positioning...

This was from ["Sons of Liberty", by Frank Turner.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kk_6kwZbNJs) 
> “Sons of Liberty” is the most political song of the album Poetry of the Deed. Frank here states once more his scepticism toward the state, especially when it comes to protect the freedom and privacy of its constituents.

From [Genius.com](https://genius.com/Frank-turner-sons-of-liberty-lyrics)

## Reviews of yesterday's insights

> "In the face of comfort, people's sense of privacy (or the need for one) eroded to the point where I could simply look into people's homes and enter their private spaces, and walk out without any issues or arguments." 

--> My return on my trip to Anière gave me this insight that has led me towards a grand thread.

> "As in, comfort erodes the need for privacy."

> "Parts of people will shine through, always." -

---> Despite constrictions, in comfort, or in code, or in privacy, or anywhere, the presence of choice (ultimately the presence of soul) will shine through.

Chun suggests  the opposite. Code is often unreadable and inaccessible. It requires faith, and becomes a invisible visible, so to speak. 
But those idiosyncrasies in code (those CSS comments) exist and can be made visible, with value. Code, despite only being text that cannot be interpreted correctly unless a computer does it for us, still holds visible traits, definitions of a zone made by humans for humans, especially in handmade zones like Neocities.

Human spirit leaks through, even in systems designed to suppress it.
This links us to the term "idiosyncracies".

> "Idiosyncracies [...] We talk about the first programs. They were always marked by the singularity or the identity of programmers. Something always linked of the identity of those that produce it- Idiosyncracies."

Back to the topic, however.---


The more comfortable and convenient a space becomes (physical or digital), the more it tends to erode privacy and individual control. Why? Because choice is stripped away from the user. Users aren't burdened with the constant presence of choice. *That is the nature of design.*

### There are threads that follow up with this.

(WHAT IS CHOICE, IF NOT SOUL?)

The presence of choice is ultimately necessary for people to feel in control, alive, and soulful. In some cultures, the very meaning of "a soul" is the presence of choice. (That is for an **entirely** different thesis... But it's a very interesting topic.)

Design, however, aims to facilitate or control choices. Buy this product, use my object like this, understand my meaning, acquire me... User interfaces, user design and design philosophies as a whole practice the erosion of choices, "wrong choices".

Modern design (physical and digital) becomes a system which subtracts control from users: the less we have to think, the more power we surrender.
(There is a right way to use a cup, a chair, an object, and designers have to make it clear within seconds to users, at the cost of controlling possible uses.)

Wendy Chun echoes this when she writes:

> “Thus, this changed man who has imbibed the market ethic is thus eminently governable,
for homo oeconomicus is shaped through “rational” and empowering management
techniques that make him “self-organized” and “self-controlling.”
**Relatedly, "user-friendly” computer interfaces have been key to empowering and
creating “productive individuals.”** ”
     (Programmed Visions, p. 8)

### Quick historical context and research

I think, moving forward, I need to look more into:

[Historical references here would be nice. I'm thinking of the Presse-Agrume, user interfaces, game design as a whole]

[How, for example, game designers have to use certain color codes to guide the eyes of players and make them follow areas.]

[Wendy Chun's work more closely]

> To design is to control choices.
> But how much control is too much?

# Academic resources to look into

We have Wendy Chun's and Alexandre Galloway's works. 
Onto other resources. Perhaps I could look deeper into the relationship between design and choices.

Need to read more.