# Thoughts (2025-04-07)

    ε=ε=ε=ε=ε=ε=┌(;￣◇￣)┘

I wanna try a secret plan, in which I employ two methods:

> Method 1) 
> Ask people to give their full information after completing a survey. My hypothesis is that, since giving out identifiable info isn't a prerequisite to completing the test, people would refrain from doing so, or be hesitant. (Though, perhaps a survey isn't necessarily the only thing I can get them to do)

> Method 2) 
> Offer a service for free, but block its access until people give their data. What I also would wanna see is how much information I can get away with "stealing" just for their convenience.

But that's probably for another time. I'll have to bring it up to Joël Vacheron.

Also, I need to correct mistakes in my documents. Typoes and all.



I also would really like to do a retrospective on last week's insights.
I haven't really slept well at all last night so I'm scared I won't be able to do it correctly.
Perhaps I don't notice it yet, but maybe I've already written 50 typoes here and 5 intelligible sentences. I'll hold back for now.


My friend Ayoub also mentionned thst Nintendo's new console, the Switch 2, has given new functionalities:
> A webcam that can bought, to film you as you play
> And an embedded mic into the console, condtantly listening for inputs, advertised ss an "online game communicaiton tool"

And he thought it was funny how such a detail that was unusual of Nintendo just got added like that. (Not the camera but the chat and the online functions)
"Film yourself while playing" which is new...? With facial recognition. Ayoub hypothesizes that perhaps some games will force users to use the camera.


Quantitative vs Qualitative data (the latter is more about understanding, more intense reflection, etc, not steaighforward)