# Thoughts (2025-04-04)

We're working on a Zbrush project, for now, and doing face scans.
The only thing of note that happened today was this.

During the face scans, I'd provide people my hard drive to transfer the data from the scanning computer to their own devices.

Essentially, doing so, I'd also get access to everyone's face data.
In fact, I actually did get to go home with this.

My classmate, Ayoub Azzouzi, noted how ironic it was that I got to "steal" everyone's face, their likeness and private property, only by providing this service to them. How ironic it was that I work on privacy, and encroached upon theirs just like that.

Similarly, just this week, I had tried to transfer data from my phone to another hard drive, but the transfer of huge files took too much time. 
I tried using WeTransfer, but it only allowed ip to 2 Go.
Swisstransfer, howeverc allows up to 50Go. I was amazed! I ran to it, then halfway through, I stoped my transfer.

50 Go, for free?

I checked the terms and services and more.

Swiss transfer has no end-to-end encryption, menaing they have entire access to the data transferred through them.


Stopping my transfer was a good call. 
Isn't it great! A service like this.. and here we are, steal encroaching on my privacy just for the sake of convenience. 

Convenience is a great tool, design-wise, to steal people's privacy. I'm guessing this isn't new info. 





# Thoughts (2025-04-05)

Observing the references I found. 

Reflections on terms and services for example. Not exactly sure this would actually yield any insight, actually.

Here are the terms and services from Linkedin.

> 3. Intellectual Property

> 3.1    License. You grant to LinkedIn (and its affiliates) a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free, sublicensable and transferable license to use, copy, modify, distribute and publish any content You provide to LinkedIn. The foregoing license survives termination of this Contract with regard to content provided prior to termination. 

I find that impressive, and linked to my point in previous documents.
"If it's on the web, it's accessible." Proprietary rights blur and disappear as users participate in platforms meant to aid in their careers or social interactions. 
But that's not design. That's terms and services. What's really compelling is how people agree to those things.

The services of Linkedin becomes indispensable by design due to how its community and the usage of this platforms aids in people's careers. It becomes an indispensable piece of social media. Too many times, people tell me I need to jeep my Linkedin up to date. How many of those users read those terms and services? About none of them, I'd almost wager.

Incidentally, the way terms and conditins are designed is also deliberate. Thin font, capital letters, with the drapeau being too squared; type like this becomes more like a texture than a text worth reading. 
The readability of it all is no different than ready a block of Lorem Ipsum. 

Actually, this makes me think about how deliberate it is.
Terms and Services pages are always designed in such a way that makes the page look "legally official". Getting on Nintendo and looking at their terms and services page — you'd immediately notice their pages is distinctly different design-wise, from all their other User Interfaces. Do they do this for readability? I certainly believe that is the case. The text-formatting is dull and simple, hard to read as well. That is a deliverate design choice. They don't want users to enjoy reading this. The text has long-winded sentences, with jargon that is hard to understand for clients. 

Your favourite designers design discomfort. 
Your favourite designers designed your terms and conditions page to be illegible.

[...]

