# A logocentric world
find that quote from Kant again

when social media came to be, mark zuckerberg and whats his face from twitter argued that it would revolutionise democracy. 

there was also this philosophy that, with the advent of social media, people would escape their self-imposed tutelage and stop following religions and bosses and leaders and more.

when in truth, none of that happened. with the advent of the internet, leaving a job no longer meant you were not "contactable". you can still be reached and that imposed surveillance far outreaches your personal life.

other philosophers assumed that programming is truth in speech personified. in a way, it is verifiable to have a language speak the truth and see truthful results in its outcome. that very act cements programming as something real. and something real can have actions in real life.

programming went from a verb, an act of a code being written and argued and deliberated around, fixed and updated, into a noun. something rigid and true.

Something patentable, something controllable, something to be owned.
this truth restructures humans into data. free software mean that YOU are the product. you are the data being sold to advertisers. you are turned into something readable, a data point. now how much of this data is actual data and not just what the program is calibrated to look for, because it is what we're looking for. (nearsightedness in data gathering)
i should write an essay by comparing philosophy to my thesis


### "THE LESS WE KNOW. THE MORE WE DECIDE TO SHOW"
---