# Augh

With the military service, the VR projects, and my personal and/or admnistrative issues, I've found it hard to keep up with my own deadlines. It's really discouraging and disheartening. 
Besides, I also feel really annoyed at myself. I don't think my thesis is that interesting anymore. Somehow, it has escaped my fingers and has become a research that no longer interests, that is no longer my own. It's not something I'm doing for my sake anymore.

I've come to resent that. Thus, because of all this, I think I can't bring myself to think about it anymore.

I've talked to a coworker about this thesis. He said he didn't really understand it: "Things are the way they are for security reasons. 2FA is good. I don't think it's convoluted. I don't understand why you say that you think online accounts belong to you? Are you talking about the experience or the security behind logins?"

I was at a loss for words. I was really disarmed. I felt like I was a kid being scolded a bit, by someone much smarter than me who works in IT. What do I want to talk about, indeed? No use in panicking. I think those comments, however kind or rude they may have seemed to me at the time, were a necessity for my research. 

Indeed, what am I talking about? Am I talking about the design of the experience? It seems like the belief of "things are the way they are for security reasons so we can't really do anything about it" is a resounding thought.

Yet, I don't believe it to be the truth.

The experience of login into accounts seems to be more convoluted, less informed, more and more across different devices and platforms. For those that can afford it, it seems seameless, perhaps. For others, for me, logging into anything feels like a chore and a half lately.

A chore and a half...

This reminds me, actually, of when I tried playing Final Fantasy 14 with friends.
In fact, the onboarding experience just to get the game working, to get my account working, to get a trial- it was so convoluted and complex that I spent 10 hours doing just that and talking to online support BEFORE even touching the game. By the time I got to playing, I had to run through 30 quests before I could enjoy the game. 10 hours invested to do 100 hours of grinding in a MMORPG... That seemed like a waste of time. That seemed like an annoying experience, from the very beginning.

Yes.

Perhaps this is what I wanna talk about...

