
# First Drafts and Notes 

 	__φ(．．;)

>*"i have a feeling. there's going to be an iphone update sometime in the future where you'll be able organise your push notifications by people straight from your phone by filing their phone numbers or other accounts together, straight from inside your phone. and nobody will see anything wrong with that despite the fact that it would be a glaring problem in privacy and security and data protection."* - Chakir ALI, 04.03.2025 at 06:18am, on Discord.

well ... why? you could connect accounts accross phone numbers, people, names, without asking for any user permissions on the other side. friends would become a liability.


# *** THESIS IDEA? QUALITY OF LIFE UPDATES AS PRIVACY CONCERNS ***

_(how they work against user safety, in aiding oppressive governments, stalkers, and third-parties)_

(Il faut reserrer le truc, search research angles, etc.)

How modern digital interfaces, and systems are deliberately designed in ways that remove user agency, privacy and comfort. "Smart tech" being not smart, etc...

How "quality of life" features hide trade-offs in privacy, autonomy, or agency.
Question how discomfort is used as a tool for compliance, forcing/leading users toward choices that benefit companies or institutions.

> **"Your Favourite Designers Design Discomfort"**


## UX/UI and Interaction Design: What is happening right now?

> *Manipulative Ux... Opt-in/opt-out... The illusion of choice and user control...?*

It seems like, nowadays, users lose their privacy more and more, through carefully designed objects. Alexa is a modern wiretap in people's homes, that people agree to have. Phones constantly give out geo-localisation data to companies, third-parties, and more. Opt-in/Opt-out options force users into certain positions. Community guidelines force users to agree to more and more privacy-eroding systems in order to have access to a service - And this applies to almost every service provided.

## What do we know that our devices do to erode our privacy?

> *Push notifications become a surveillance tool. (Third parties and governments have access to push notification data). Privacy erosion hidden as convenience. Where are we headed? When did those practices start? Why?


## Historical viewpoints to look into?

 2016 Net Neutrality, look into it, timeline and research. Political changes. 
 The advent of data as a currency for companies.

## Notes:

Subscriptions everywhere, economic incentives behind intentionally inconvenient or addictive systems... The legality of it all, where is it?

Helplessness in user design. Decision fatigue, compliance. Psychological nudges and social engineering VS. **Complete transparency**

My goal would be to put a stop to this, or find alternatives...

## Potential Angles:

> "What appears as modern convenience is often a discomfort engineered to extract data or value from users."

> "Discomfort  is manufactured in order to force the alternative." Nope, my thesis isn't about designed discomfort. It touches on it, but not solely... But maybe it should?

**"Your Favourite Designers Design Discomfort.**

*Convenience in the face of discomfort is a trap; someone designed it that way."*


## BOOKS REF: 

### BY - Wendy Hui Kyong Chun
- *Programmed Visions: Software and Memory*
- *Discriminating Data: Correlation, Neighborhoods, and the New Politics of Recognition*
- *Control and freedom*
- [Research her other works on privacy]

### BY - Alexander R. Galloway

- *The Interface Effect*

