# Critical Thinking Skills...? (2025-05-26)

    ʅ（◞‿◟）ʃ


Experiences with access rituals.

First off, what are "access rituals"? I use this term to refer to logins, passwords, identification - everything that are needed in order to acquire access to a service or platform. This is sort of a list of experiences that can sometimes be dehumanising.

---

Pokemon TCG Pocket

Talk about your experience in getting your account back after 4 months and 20 days of intense communication with pokemon support.

A gruelling experience in which I had lost access to my account, and to retrieve it, I had to give an impressive amount of information about my account. Codes Ihad luckily saved, names of decks, names of accounts, first time I played, last time I played. Then I had to wait for confirmation, talk about a semi-hostile help desk... Yeah. It was a bit annoying. They took a loooong time too.

---
Microsoft Outlook

Talk about the amount of times this website keeps you logged out for hours on end, or keeps logging you out.

Douglas asked why the "keep me logged in" button existed in the first place, as we kept getting logged out. It was a bit weird to hear about because it highlighted my attention to how annoying this "secure" email service was just outrageously inaccessible at times. I have been logged out of most of my academic resoruces for a while, and couldn't get access to my student's attestation for a while - leading me to lose access to services for students at times.
Completely annoying.

---

Mangadex and Data Leaks
Talk about data leaks from this manga reading website. Or maybe not?

---

Jobup and data leaks, phone calls, etc...

Talk about the trend of having your data be sold, causing you to receive a hundred phone calls a week, scams and whatnot. The amount of private data online job offers ask, demand and require of us before even being considered.

I have not had that many scam calls, not until I started applying for jobs online. I am certain I got my data sold. 
Will need to use the email@gmail+[site].com method, where I get to know where my data is sold and such.

---

Takeaway from data gathering. What is left of us?

Not much? I mean, I give so much just from getting access to a website. For what goal? For security? Is it secure? Like actually?

---

---> Next, books and readings

# Quotes to amass and comment:

# Richard Sennett - Les Tyrannies de l’intimité
• Aujourd’hui, l’intimité est à la fois une vision des relations sociales et une exigence.

• Une société où le sentiment intime est le standard universel de la réalité.

• La vision “intime” du monde s’accroît dans la proportion où le domaine public est abandonné et laissé vacant.
• Cette forme de tyrannie […] n’a pas besoin de se manifester sous une forme brutale : elle peut agir par la séduction, si bien que les gens eux-mêmes souhaitent être gouvernés par une autorité unique et suprême.

• Refuser comme inauthentique l’épaisseur du tissu social… se livrent sans défense à la pire des oppressions.

# Wendy Hui Kyong Chun - Programmed Visions / Control and Freedom / Discriminating Data

• Graphical interfaces and personalized software experiences ‘empower’ users by amplifying their actions, seemingly putting us in control, in the ‘bull-dozer’s cab’.

• Freedom here stems from individual knowledge and actions, a central tenet of neoliberal governmentality.

• A neoliberal empowerment through the embedding of governmental enforcement into everyday situations, making us ‘subjects’ of code.

• Through our clicks, we perhaps always escape, but never leave, embroiled more strongly in an ideology that persists… So, instead of being enlightened and free, we seem to be caught in a certain madness… We seem to be free only within certain constraints, within a ‘mousetrap.’

• When freedom is conflated with security, freedom loses its meaning… it can turn into nothing more than the partner of, or the alibi for, control.

• Polarization is a goal — not an error — within big data and machine learning.

• Recommender systems foster angry clusters of sameness through homophily.

• Users are ‘trained’ to become authentically predictable via a politics and technology of
recognition.

## Alexander R. Galloway - The Interface Effect

• When it is working smoothly you hardly notice it is there at all. Rather like ideology, really. Perhaps in some peculiar way it is ideology.

 
## Braxton Soderman - Against Flow
• Flow is an ideology because its explanation of the world encourages specific kinds of action with social and political consequences.

• An individual can fix their own problems by getting absorbed in pleasurable activity… revolution is beside the point when the world’s become a playground.

• Offering to solve players’ problems through play, flow distracts and diverts social energies into individual pursuits.
• Along with critics like Mackenzie Wark and Patrick Jagoda, Soderman argues that contemporary society has been gamified, meaning that capitalism has adopted elements of games in an effort to make work and consumption resemble play.

• Playfulness and flow have become valuable feelings not just in our free time but also at work.

• In this situation of total play, the value of play seems to unravel. Play is just another kind of labor — unpaid.

## Hakim Bey - The Temporary Autonomous Zone

• The TAZ is like an uprising which does not engage directly with the State, a guerrilla operation which liberates an area (of land, of time, of imagination) and then dissolves itself to re-form elsewhere… before the State can crush it.

• Getting the TAZ started may involve tactics of violence and defense, but its greatest strength lies in its invisibility — the State cannot recognize it because History has no definition of it. As soon as the TAZ is named (represented, mediated), it must vanish.
• An encampment of guerrilla ontologists: strike and run away… evade the violence of the State.
• A microcosm of that ‘anarchist dream’ of a free culture.


# Next 
---


The research question: Why talk about login rituals? Why not talk about Google Maps, privacy, area, and stuff?

There is something that tires me about working on Geneva. In some way, I would like to think that Geneva is a mcirocosm of the world, but it does not feel like it. It may also be personal, but I do not like the idea of focusing on one area of Geneva and remaining there.

Though, perhaps the scope of my research now is still too vast. It's fine. 
Onboarding rituals do take into account TOS, so it's not too bad. Now, to focus on a single platform or method of onboarding would be a sound method. Its designs, usages, etc...

The design of 2FA? Meh. The Design of TOS? Meh.


---

Sometiems access can be revoked. We don't have the key but access to the doorbell to ring at the door. Access rituals exclude us easy

Migration. Experiences are designed to not be accessible. Immigrant experiences... Instagram users getting kicked out.

Access issues.
Merci.


---
ACCESS EXPERIENCE is designed to not give you complete access. That's something else entirely.

Stanylsas michele

----


Fortress LA de Mike Davis - The miltiarization of urban spaces

Un espace qui est urbain commence à être pensé comme un lieu qui doit être protégé
Same thing for online spaces


Métaphore de la forteresse.

