# Thoughts (2025-04-08 to 2025-04-09)
		m(_ _)m

I haven't had much time to work on my thesis.

Here is a Tumblr post I came across and took note of.

> first they made it mandatory to log in everywhere. create an account to download your free template Log in to access resource give us your email nowwwww. Now the humble password is being killed too. open your magic email link! type your 6 digit code that we texted you because we required your email and your phone number! we’re gonna call you and whisper a code sweetly in your ear so you can log in to your account. yes it has a password but you cant use that anymore. okay? poob is gonna call you. now poob is just gonna call you. 

From Tumblr, username [ispookymansion](https://www.tumblr.com/galaxia-prince/780388351617400832) on April 8th

I had actually failed to notice the disappearance of the password. Why is that, actually? Is it for "security issues"? Convenience? What does it aim to achieve...?

First, let me look into the comments.

I think I'll just add the comments here 

> It’s stops password sharing and makes it everyone has to have individual accounts instead of one account family or friends use

By rosiea184, 8 Apr

> in order to log into the fucking taco bell app i have to open my email because they have gone passwordless for my security. goddamned taco fucking bell.

>like i recognize there’s a billion worse places that require way more steps to ‘verify my identity’ but for some reason the fast food restaurant i go to when i am feeling particularly depressed getting in on the action feels most like a kick in the nuts. to me.

by anthonycrowley, 8 Apr

and in reply to the previous comment, ispyspookymansion (OP) says:

> its CRAZYYYY who the fuck do you think you are. i was logging in to depop the other day and it sent me a magic link and then clicking the link i STILL had to wait for a 6 digit text. what is going on

> @ispyspookymansion A lot is going on actually, not all of it bad. Turns out authentication a complex issue! You see, Taco Bell has a few problems. One: Many of the features they want to offer (credit card saving, rewards, etc) require knowing who the user is. Two: User Authentication and securly storing relevant information is hard. Three: Passwords are hard for end users to manage, causing them to reuse passwords and make themselves more vulnerable.
> [...] Anyway... the shift to passwordless helps control for a lot of the issues, but it's poorly set up because they don't have people who are good at this because they are a fast food comany. Instead of setting up their own stuff, they rely on whatever the vendor they are using for authentication reccommends. The annoying thing is that this is what we WANT to happen. Because again, fast food comany, not tech company.

by null-is-sparing-you, Apr 9

> i find it more egregious that you have to have a taco bell account to even order some of their menu items. it's fucking fast food; i don't want to go to their website or download their app in the first place.

by eriyu, Apr 9

> @eriyu EXAAAAAACTLY like why do you have to save my information at all. is the point.

by anthonycrowley, Apr 9

> @null-is-sparing-you dont care, not everyone and their mom is entitled to my phone number

by candleswans, Apr 9

> It's hard to strike a balance between "2fa is an absolute cybersecurity necessity, especially if financial information is being stored" and "end users will see this as an affront to their ever-eroding dignity in the face of increasingly alienating technology." Ironically, ofc, 2fa is necessary because otherwise smart people love to do things like set their password to "password123" or open dubious Ray-Bans ads 🤷‍♀️

in reply to null-is-sparing-you, by pitchburg, Apr 10

[Add images]


A very interesting conversation, which falls in line with my reasoning to some extent...


It made me wonder about 2FA and emails and coses being sent via email or phone.
It forces entititea to have access to your email and/or phone number, prevents you from sharing accounts, and it does another thing which I find perverted:

You no longer have a key to open the door to access. THEY hold the entire access to it, and can fully control that experience against you.

Passwords disappearing means that they can create a User Experience for connecting (designed email, confirmation, asking you to buy stuff or fill a survey). The prerequisites for connecting are no longer: create an account, have a password, you get to enter. You no longer control this. They grant you access, and they will take advantage of that. An ongoing performance of trust 