# Writing tips and notes

        ദ്ദി •⩊• )


## Thoughts and interactions

I think I really like this aspect of study, in which I observe people, gather data from their experiences and thoughts. 
Speaking of... This reminds me of streamers I saw last weekend that talked about something similar to my topic. Due to how rowdy and crass they were being, I'm afraid of quoting them in full here. 

"A good product is a tolerable product [in the minds of shareholders]" is something Jared Slawski said on a stream. This was about Discord going from private to public, and the new CEO of the company being Activision  Blizzard's previous CEO - spelling disaster for the future of Discord. People fear that with him in that role, Discord would be monetized even more, covered in advertisement, or worse... (Reminds me of my mom's experience with Visilab from 2025-04-12)...

But that's in the future.  My main observation is less about the content of his sentence and moreso the overall sentiment of people regarding those changes. It seems like this is the popular thought in most circles I hang around in. But is it actually? Are people *feeling* this erosion of intimacy/privacy which I am talking about? I would need to ask around in interviews, without leading them on...

----- 

Also, Félicien is here to give us pro tips.

He talks about IMSI catches which are "fake cellphone towers" that are deployed during protests. Phones connect to those towers and law enforcement as a result gets access to IMSI data which is specific to every SIM card, and then they can ask callphone providers which code belongs to whom, thus identifying the people at the protest.

State of the art - depicts the actual developments around your research question into  the academic field, but also in design practices + 
helps you contextualise your theoretical framework.

Identify what's been done so far and propose something that can help the research go further.

My research shouldn't lack epistemological rigour - maybe the research can seem goofy but it needs to remain serious.

Research into design include:
historical research, aesthetic or perceptual research, reserach into a variety of theoretical perspectives on art and design - social, economic, political, ethical, cultural, iconographic, technical, material, structural... a body of work of different methods to get results

---

## Talk with Félicien Goguey

--> When I explained my research, he immediately noted that a lot of my research could be expanded into a master's thesis already. Google Maps and my trip to Anière, Terms and Conditions, payments...

 He said that I need to find a service to focus on. Online maps perhaps? He seemed really interested in my google maps research, privacy sphere, digital boundaries, etc...


  There's also a philosophical aspect that I would need to focus on. He mentionned the Panopticon, Foucault (iirc)... Either way, I'd have to quickly find a service. There's a lot of design projects that surround the topic of google maps as well. They talked about Mishka Hener, Adam Harvey's Data pools...


  Sphère privé, sphère publique... There was the topic of Numerical Sovereignty that came up vis-à-vis data being owned by countries and what happens to it when the legislation changes in that country.
  
  Joël VACHERON talked about "Dimensions of citizenship" and the essays I should read.

  Either way, I'm left with one problem... Find ONE thing to focus on.

  Perhaps I'm not looking to do ethics-first in terms of my research because in today's climate, that topic is always a bit contentious. Still... I'd need to narrow my research. Félicien talked about narrowing it to Geneva, maybe even Anière. Doing Google Maps research on Geneva just... The idea doesn't feel that glamorous to me. 


Still, Google Maps' effect on the world... There's got to be something there. 
Mappings, systems, private spheres - those things though, the things Félicien brought light to me - I think they're really mostly taking me on a path that doesn't really speak to me inwardly. Trying to proove that "friction in design" is a necessity, is something I want to do but I'm not sure he got that.

I don't want to talk about private properties and public. I want to talk about how powers that be *weasel their way into our private, intimate spheres...* Eh.

I’m not here to critique just who holds the access and power. I want to expose how this control enters our spheres subtly, smoothly, without consent.

I think I could focus on: 


- A Type of design mechanism (e.g. frictionless UI, logins, map algorithms)

- Use-case domain (e.g. file sharing, online identity systems, communication platforms)

- Interactions with users (e.g. when users sign up, accept cookies, use biometric login, or access content)

Perhaps my question is...

How does "frictionless design" erase people's agency by controlling methods of access? How could we redesign access itself to restore literacy, control, and trust?

I want to prove that design’s promise of comfort is a form of coercion—and that by refusing this comfort, we can recover agency, literacy, and self-respect in digital life.

I'm thinking back on Animal Crossing and other UIs that make navigating the game hard but as a result make people spend much more time on the game. And when ease comes into the game, when tools and stuff are easier to use, then people spend less time on the game. Perhaps Friction in design allows people to spend more time, and this time is precious in order to give people more attention and control over their own actions, they remain aware and less passive... But eh.

Friction and ethos?

Well, at any rate, my main priority right now would be to read, and then think about who to interview where and why. I might just focus on google maps.

Alright. See ya.