> “Google Maps had given me the wrong path… Funnily enough, google maps has no care for people's private property.”
> “Isn't it weird everyone's homes is visible from our computers? That used to not be the case.”

A  supposedly neutral service (Google Maps) leads people into trespassing, because it ignores the nuances of private vs public space. The map doesn’t ask permission. 

## The world is Google's oyster. We're living in it.

Google has this neo-colonial claim on the world. A platform laying claim to space, data, behavior, across platforms, across spaces, across the world.
What did the world look like before Google? I've known it, briefly. Maps had to be kept up to date, bought, folded, carried, printed... You weren't able to see someone's home on your computer. Your front yard wasn't publicly accessible online. 

In that sense, technology destroys spatial ethics and borders; if it’s on the map, it’s accessible.


Similarly, even when people have access to their own online free real estates (NeoCities... a form of digital counterculture), one can still trespass, steal html code, encroach in their spaces... If it's on the web, it's accessible.


Exposure and visibility thus become consent in the eyes of others. I exist, therefore I consent to having my picture taken, my space invaded, my doors unlocked, my privacy eroded. Perhaps this is what I truly mean. Manufactured consent, or consent being eroded into forcing you accept your privacy being taken away from you.

And this would link to the huuuuundreds of attempts at taking away the privacy of citizens under the guise of security... but that's a different topic!!! That's not my thesis!! My thesis is about design, design, design; the way we use design to cleverly aid in removing agency, privacy and control from users.
...

AnywAYS!


My brain is getting a bit tired.

Let's look into historical events and moments that perhaps bring us back to my point?

## What does History (with a big H) have to say?




## Speculation on the future?