# Interview  held on the 14th of June

Joëlle Bitton, my tutor, noted down a few things I need to look into.

For the purpose of reiteration, my thesis is on the design of the login experience. What that entails, however, has yet to be defined. I'm unsure of what I exactly need to do regarding this thesis, as I truly believe I've pushed myself into a corner I can no longer back away from.

Back to Joëlle, though.
After my appointment with her, she told me to halt before doing interviews. She said I needed to do a taxonomy of login methods (sites, their differences - and large observation of the login in general)
She also told me not to hastily jump to conclusions, especially since I mention privacy quite a lot during my presentations. It seems that even I appear to be uncertain when I enter the topic of privacy. If I do get back to it, I have to clearly define. Besides, am I even correct in my conclusions? It's fine if I am not correct. In fact, it's good if I am disproved too.
Logins are complex due to security issues. The login experience however aims to retain a sort of seamlessness across platforms, which isn't necessarily negative. Early on in my research, I talked about how friction in design is a necessity, and frictionless design removes agency. Perhaps this is what I'm trying to get at.
I also need to identify if people made researches on this topic already, what's the current state of the art... There are a lot of articles, conferences, marketing strategies, projects and state of the Art things that I could look into (Research pending)
She talked about a graphic novel about terms and conditions too... on itunes? Where did that go even
Am I talking the concept of the login experience or its design? Those are two different things. User interfaces, user experiences... That could be interesting for people that are... not me. Still, perhaps there's a kernel of interest I can find within this mine of boring design lingo.

Talking about the concept of the login experience could yield deeper philosophical, anthropological and scientific researches on the topic. I'm talking data analysis, privacy, what logins are as a whole, interviewing it, etc... But I fear it may be out of my scope of abilities to even document about.

As a reminder - and also because I had to narrow down the scope of my research even more because I was too vast, my thesis is this:

The Login Fortress - Login Rituals & their privacy (title not final)
The user experience is designed in such a way to make
you believe that your accounts online belong to you,
and so does the data you give away.
How much of that is true?
Where is the “login experience” headed?
Can we design those experiences differently?
What would login look like in a system that didn’t assume the user was a potential threat?


It's... a whole lot of [animal feces].

First and foremost, is the internet really the place where we can harness a form a privacy at all? Does privacy exist at all? What's a private life to begin with? Those are perhaps not questions I need to answer.

I need to observe the general ambiance, what annoys people, their private life, how they feel... Get  opinions across different age ranges.
The topic can broaden or shrink during my research; it's a good thing I shouldn't be panicking about. (Was totally panicking about this)
I also need to think of the format of the book and how I'll print and edit it to best represent my thesis.
I also need to write 10'000 characters spaces non-included for September, which is feasible. Now if I'm writing things of value and meaning is another thing altogether LMAO

I need to position myself on this paper. It's important that i lay an opinion across.
I need to study Human Computer Interactions, talk about onboarding experiences (logins essentially), cybersecurity (AUGH) and find confs on HCI as well. There are places like Desgin Interactive Systems and other places where conferences are held where I can find people talk about similar topics, insha'Allah.

Privacy or Onboarding? security? intimacy? Distance? I need to identify my scope.

